---
layout: jclouds
title: Release Notes for jclouds Version 1.6.1
---

Release Notes for jclouds Version 1.6.1
=========================

Release Date: June 19, 2013

## Introduction

jclouds Version 1.6.1 is geared around the transition into the Apache Incubator. It represents the first release of jclouds in the Apache Incubator. The most significant change is to the jclouds Maven groupId. You can read more about it in the Changes section below.

You can read the official announcement at [Apache jclouds 1.6.1-incubating released](http://www.mail-archive.com/user@jclouds.incubator.apache.org/msg00112.html). You can read the details of the specific JIRA issues addressed in this release at the [JIRA Release Notes](https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?projectId=12314430&version=12324412).

To get jclouds, please see the [jclouds installation guide](/documentation/userguide/installation-guide).


## Additions

 * Added the karaf/CLI command blobstore-blob-exists.

## Removals

 * Removed sandbox-apis and sandbox-providers.

## Changes

 * The jclouds Maven groupId has changed from org.jclouds to org.apache.jclouds so a pom.xml dependency would now look like:
 
{% highlight xml %}
<dependencies>
  <dependency>
    <groupId>org.apache.jclouds</groupId>
    <artifactId>jclouds-all</artifactId>
    <version>1.6.1-incubating</version>
  </dependency>
</dependencies>
{% endhighlight %}
 
 * Note that the package names in the source code have *not* changed.
 * jclouds-karaf has undergone a similar modification and you'll need to change the `featureRepositories` line in `etc/org.apache.karaf.features.cfg`  to `featuresRepositories=mvn:org.apache.jclouds.karaf/jclouds-karaf/${jclouds.karaf.version}/xml/features` in the command line interface.
 * Updated license headers and project metadata to align with Apache Incubator.

## Fixes

 * Allow repeatable Payload with InputSupplier input (allows retries to work)
 * Map S3 TooManyBuckets to InsufficientResourcesException
 * Fixed the jclouds-cli start script so that it now runs smoothly on Windows.

## Deprecated and Non-backwards Compatible Changes
 *  All Async interfaces are deprecated and will be removed in the next major version of jclouds.  Please only use the synchronous  APIs, those without "Async" in the class name, such as `NovaApi`. You can find an example of doing an asynchronous file upload without the Async interface in [MultiFileUploaderC.java](https://github.com/jclouds/jclouds-cloud-storage-workshop/blob/master/exercise2/src/main/java/org/jclouds/labs/blobstore/exercise2/MultiFileUploaderC.java).
 *  Accordingly, please discontinue use of `RestContext`.  This is replaced with `ApiContext`, which doesn't have an Async type.  Note that you can use `ContextBuilder.buildApi(YourApi.class)` instead of using contexts, as API interfaces are now closeable.
 *  Please discontinue use of `Context.utils()` as many features there were only present to support the Async interfaces of jclouds.  Code in jclouds will be easier to maintain when we needn't support utilities that are also present in tools such as Guava and Bouncycastle.  

## Credits

jclouds would like to thank everyone who contributed time and effort in order to make this release happen: 

  * Andrew Bayer for leading the release charge.
  * A special thanks to our Apache mentors for guiding us through our first release. 
  * Check out who has been busy [here](http://www.ohloh.net/p/jclouds/contributors?query=&sort=latest_commit).

